python/packages/autogen-core/docs/src/user-guide/agentchat-user-guide/stocksnippet.md, before:

``````{tab-set}

`````{tab-item} AgentChat (v0.4x)
```python
from autogen_agentchat.agents import CodeExecutorAgent, CodingAssistantAgent
from autogen_agentchat.teams.group_chat import RoundRobinGroupChat
from autogen_core.components.code_executor import DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor
from autogen_core.components.models import OpenAIChatCompletionClient

async with DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor(work_dir="coding") as code_executor:
    code_executor_agent = CodeExecutorAgent("code_executor", code_executor=code_executor)
    coding_assistant_agent = CodingAssistantAgent(
        "coding_assistant", model_client=OpenAIChatCompletionClient(model="gpt-4")
    )
    group_chat = RoundRobinGroupChat([coding_assistant_agent, code_executor_agent])
    result = await group_chat.run(
        task="Create a plot of NVIDIA and TESLA stock returns YTD from 2024-01-01 and save it to 'nvidia_tesla_2024_ytd.png'."
    )
    print(result)
```
`````

`````{tab-item} v0.2x
```python
from autogen import AssistantAgent, UserProxyAgent, config_list_from_json

config_list = config_list_from_json(env_or_file="OAI_CONFIG_LIST")
assistant = AssistantAgent("assistant", llm_config={"config_list": config_list})
code_executor_agent = UserProxyAgent(
    "code_executor_agent",
    code_execution_config={"work_dir": "coding", "use_docker": True}
)
code_executor_agent.initiate_chat(
    assistant,
    message="Create a plot of NVIDIA and TESLA stock returns YTD from 2024-01-01 and save it to 'nvidia_tesla_2024_ytd.png'."
)
```
`````

``````

Commit message:

Termination condition for agentchat teams (#3696)
* Update PR link in blog post (#3602)

* Update PR link in blog post

* Update index.mdx

* Create CI to tag issues with needs triage (#3605)

* Update issue templates (#3610)

* Update config.yml

* Delete .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md

* Delete .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/general_issue.yml

* Update feature_request.yml

* Update feature_request.yml

* Update feature_request.yml

* Update feature_request.yml

* Update bug_report.yml

* Update .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.yml

Co-authored-by: Eric Zhu <ekzhu@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/config.yml

Co-authored-by: Eric Zhu <ekzhu@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update bug_report.yml

* Update config.yml

---------

Co-authored-by: Eric Zhu <ekzhu@users.noreply.github.com>

* termination condition

* Termination condition

* termination condition in group chat manager

* Update module import

* Fix logging

* Clean up

* Fix doc string

---------

Co-authored-by: Jack Gerrits <jackgerrits@users.noreply.github.com>

python/packages/autogen-core/docs/src/user-guide/agentchat-user-guide/stocksnippet.md, after:

``````{tab-set}

`````{tab-item} AgentChat (v0.4x)
```python
from autogen_agentchat.agents import CodeExecutorAgent, CodingAssistantAgent
from autogen_agentchat.teams import RoundRobinGroupChat, StopMessageTermination
from autogen_core.components.code_executor import DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor
from autogen_core.components.models import OpenAIChatCompletionClient

async with DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor(work_dir="coding") as code_executor:
    code_executor_agent = CodeExecutorAgent("code_executor", code_executor=code_executor)
    coding_assistant_agent = CodingAssistantAgent(
        "coding_assistant", model_client=OpenAIChatCompletionClient(model="gpt-4")
    )
    group_chat = RoundRobinGroupChat([coding_assistant_agent, code_executor_agent])
    result = await group_chat.run(
        task="Create a plot of NVIDIA and TESLA stock returns YTD from 2024-01-01 and save it to 'nvidia_tesla_2024_ytd.png'.",
        termination_condition=StopMessageTermination(),
    )
```
`````

`````{tab-item} v0.2x
```python
from autogen import AssistantAgent, UserProxyAgent, config_list_from_json

config_list = config_list_from_json(env_or_file="OAI_CONFIG_LIST")
assistant = AssistantAgent("assistant", llm_config={"config_list": config_list})
code_executor_agent = UserProxyAgent(
    "code_executor_agent",
    code_execution_config={"work_dir": "coding", "use_docker": True}
)
code_executor_agent.initiate_chat(
    assistant,
    message="Create a plot of NVIDIA and TESLA stock returns YTD from 2024-01-01 and save it to 'nvidia_tesla_2024_ytd.png'."
)
```
`````

``````
