python/packages/autogen-core/docs/src/user-guide/autogenstudio-user-guide/installation.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description lang=en": |
      User Guide for AutoGen Studio - A low code tool for building and debugging multi-agent systems
---

# Installation

There are two ways to install AutoGen Studio - from PyPi or from source. We **recommend installing from PyPi** unless you plan to modify the source code.

## Create a Virtual Environment (Recommended)

We recommend using a virtual environment as this will ensure that the dependencies for AutoGen Studio are isolated from the rest of your system.

``````{tab-set}

`````{tab-item} venv

Create and activate:

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

To deactivate later, run:

```bash
deactivate
```

`````

`````{tab-item} conda

[Install Conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/stable/user-guide/install/index.html) if you have not already.


Create and activate:

```bash
conda create -n autogen python=3.10
conda activate autogen
```

To deactivate later, run:

```bash
conda deactivate
```


`````



``````

## Install Using pip (Recommended)

You can install AutoGen Studio using pip, the Python package manager.

```bash
pip install -U autogenstudio
```

### Install from Source\*\*

> Note: This approach requires some familiarity with building interfaces in React.

If you prefer to install from source, ensure you have Python 3.10+ and Node.js (version above 14.15.0) installed. Here's how you get started:

- Clone the AutoGen Studio repository and install its Python dependencies:

  ```bash
  pip install -e .
  ```

- Navigate to the `samples/apps/autogen-studio/frontend` directory, install dependencies, and build the UI:

  ```bash
  npm install -g gatsby-cli
  npm install --global yarn
  cd frontend
  yarn install
  yarn build
  ```

For Windows users, to build the frontend, you may need alternative commands to build the frontend.

```bash

  gatsby clean && rmdir /s /q ..\\autogenstudio\\web\\ui 2>nul & (set \"PREFIX_PATH_VALUE=\" || ver>nul) && gatsby build --prefix-paths && xcopy /E /I /Y public ..\\autogenstudio\\web\\ui

```

## Running the Application

Once installed, run the web UI by entering the following in a terminal:

```bash
autogenstudio ui --port 8081 --appdir /path/to/folder
```

This will start the application on the specified port. Open your web browser and go to `http://localhost:8081/` to begin using AutoGen Studio.

AutoGen Studio also takes several parameters to customize the application:

- `--host <host>` argument to specify the host address. By default, it is set to `localhost`.
- `--appdir <appdir>` argument to specify the directory where the app files (e.g., database and generated user files) are stored. By default, it is set to the a `.autogenstudio` directory in the user's home directory.
- `--port <port>` argument to specify the port number. By default, it is set to `8080`.
- `--upgrade-database` argument to force-upgrade it's internal database schema (assuming there are changes in the version you are installing). By default, it is set to `False`.
- `--reload` argument to enable auto-reloading of the server when changes are made to the code. By default, it is set to `False`.
- `--database-uri` argument to specify the database URI. Example values include `sqlite:///database.sqlite` for SQLite and `postgresql+psycopg://user:password@localhost/dbname` for PostgreSQL. If this is not specified, the database URI defaults to a `autogen.db` file in the `--appdir` directory.

Now that you have AutoGen Studio installed and running, you are ready to explore its capabilities, including defining and modifying agent workflows, interacting with agents and sessions, and expanding agent skills.

Commit message:

PoC AGS dev container (#5026)
* Add tiktoken as a dependency in pyproject.toml

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

Update uv.lock with tiktoken dependency from fbfdc9f652384b70f7461c90ada13f87e83677e0

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

* Updating autogen-ext dependencies per https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/pull/5008#issuecomment-2585383877

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

* PoC dev container

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

* Enhance devcontainer setup with post-create script for dependency installation and improved performance. Removed partial hot reload setup, as it required bigger changes to the project. Improved documentation, and fixed markdown lint issues.

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

* Update installation documentation for AutoGen Studio, clarifying installation methods and improving formatting. Adjusted notes for Windows users and corrected minor grammatical issues.

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

* Fixing typos. Restructuring text to avoid consecutive markdown quote blocks separated only by a blank line to avoid MD028 - Blank line inside blockquote.

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

* Include dev containers tutorial

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

* Update dev container installation instructions

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>

---------

Signed-off-by: Johan Forngren <johan.forngren@decerno.se>
Co-authored-by: Victor Dibia <victordibia@microsoft.com>

python/packages/autogen-core/docs/src/user-guide/autogenstudio-user-guide/installation.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description lang=en": |
      User Guide for AutoGen Studio - A low code tool for building and debugging multi-agent systems
---

# Installation

There are two ways to install AutoGen Studio - from PyPi or from source. We **recommend installing from PyPi** unless you plan to modify the source code.

## Create a Virtual Environment (Recommended)

We recommend using a virtual environment as this will ensure that the dependencies for AutoGen Studio are isolated from the rest of your system.

``````{tab-set}

`````{tab-item} venv

Create and activate:

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

To deactivate later, run:

```bash
deactivate
```

`````

`````{tab-item} conda

[Install Conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/stable/user-guide/install/index.html) if you have not already.


Create and activate:

```bash
conda create -n autogen python=3.10
conda activate autogen
```

To deactivate later, run:

```bash
conda deactivate
```


`````



``````

## Install from PyPi (Recommended)

You can install AutoGen Studio using pip, the Python package manager.

```bash
pip install -U autogenstudio
```

## Install from source

_Note: This approach requires some familiarity with building interfaces in React._

You have two options for installing from source: manually or using a dev container.

### A) Install from source manually

1. Ensure you have Python 3.10+ and Node.js (version above 14.15.0) installed.
2. Clone the AutoGen Studio repository and install its Python dependencies using `pip install -e .`
3. Navigate to the `python/packages/autogen-studio/frontend` directory, install the dependencies, and build the UI:

  ```bash
  npm install -g gatsby-cli
  npm install --global yarn
  cd frontend
  yarn install
  yarn build
  # Windows users may need alternative commands to build the frontend:
  gatsby clean && rmdir /s /q ..\\autogenstudio\\web\\ui 2>nul & (set \"PREFIX_PATH_VALUE=\" || ver>nul) && gatsby build --prefix-paths && xcopy /E /I /Y public ..\\autogenstudio\\web\\ui
  ```

### B)  Install from source using a dev container

1. Follow the [Dev Containers tutorial](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/tutorial) to install VS Code, Docker and relevant extensions.
2. Clone the AutoGen Studio repository.
3. Open `python/packages/autogen-studio/`in VS Code. Click the blue button in bottom the corner or press F1 and select _"Dev Containers: Reopen in Container"_.
4. Build the UI:

  ```bash
  cd frontend
  yarn build
  ```

## Running the Application

Once installed, run the web UI by entering the following in your terminal:

```bash
autogenstudio ui --port 8081
```

This command will start the application on the specified port. Open your web browser and go to <http://localhost:8081/> to use AutoGen Studio.

AutoGen Studio also takes several parameters to customize the application:

- `--host <host>` argument to specify the host address. By default, it is set to `localhost`.
- `--appdir <appdir>` argument to specify the directory where the app files (e.g., database and generated user files) are stored. By default, it is set to the `.autogenstudio` directory in the user's home directory.
- `--port <port>` argument to specify the port number. By default, it is set to `8080`.
- `--reload` argument to enable auto-reloading of the server when changes are made to the code. By default, it is set to `False`.
- `--database-uri` argument to specify the database URI. Example values include `sqlite:///database.sqlite` for SQLite and `postgresql+psycopg://user:password@localhost/dbname` for PostgreSQL. If this is not specified, the database URL defaults to a `database.sqlite` file in the `--appdir` directory.
- `--upgrade-database` argument to upgrade the database schema to the latest version. By default, it is set to `False`.

Now that you have AutoGen Studio installed and running, you are ready to explore its capabilities, including defining and modifying agent workflows, interacting with agents and sessions, and expanding agent skills.
