dotnet/website/articles/getting-start.md, before:

### Get start with AutoGen for dotnet
[![dotnet-ci](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/actions/workflows/dotnet-build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/actions/workflows/dotnet-build.yml)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1153072414184452236?logo=discord&style=flat)](https://discord.gg/pAbnFJrkgZ)
[![NuGet version](https://badge.fury.io/nu/AutoGen.Core.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/nu/AutoGen.Core)

Firstly, add `AutoGen` package to your project.

```bash
dotnet add package AutoGen
```

> [!NOTE]
> For more information about installing packages, please check out the [installation guide](Installation.md).

Then you can start with the following code snippet to create a conversable agent and chat with it.

[!code-csharp[](../../sample/AutoGen.BasicSamples/CodeSnippet/GetStartCodeSnippet.cs?name=snippet_GetStartCodeSnippet)]
[!code-csharp[](../../sample/AutoGen.BasicSamples/CodeSnippet/GetStartCodeSnippet.cs?name=code_snippet_1)]

### Examples
You can find more examples under the [sample project](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/tree/dotnet/dotnet/sample/AutoGen.BasicSamples).

### Report a bug or request a feature
You can report a bug or request a feature by creating a new issue in the [github issue](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/issues) and specifying label the label "donet"

Commit message:

improve `Create agent with tools` and add tuturial reference in index.md (#3024)

dotnet/website/articles/getting-start.md, after:

### Get start with AutoGen for dotnet
[![dotnet-ci](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/actions/workflows/dotnet-build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/actions/workflows/dotnet-build.yml)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1153072414184452236?logo=discord&style=flat)](https://discord.gg/pAbnFJrkgZ)
[![NuGet version](https://badge.fury.io/nu/AutoGen.Core.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/nu/AutoGen.Core)

Firstly, add `AutoGen` package to your project.

```bash
dotnet add package AutoGen
```

> [!NOTE]
> For more information about installing packages, please check out the [installation guide](Installation.md).

Then you can start with the following code snippet to create a conversable agent and chat with it.

[!code-csharp[](../../sample/AutoGen.BasicSamples/CodeSnippet/GetStartCodeSnippet.cs?name=snippet_GetStartCodeSnippet)]
[!code-csharp[](../../sample/AutoGen.BasicSamples/CodeSnippet/GetStartCodeSnippet.cs?name=code_snippet_1)]

### Tutorial
Getting started with AutoGen.Net by following the [tutorial](../tutorial/Chat-with-an-agent.md) series.
### Examples
You can find more examples under the [sample project](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/tree/dotnet/dotnet/sample/AutoGen.BasicSamples).

### Report a bug or request a feature
You can report a bug or request a feature by creating a new issue in the [github issue](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/issues) and specifying label the label "donet"
