python/packages/autogen-core/samples/README.md, before:

# Examples

This directory contains examples of how to use AutoGen core.

See [Running the examples](#running-the-examples) for instructions on how to run the examples.

- [`coding_pub_sub.py`](coding_pub_sub.py): a code execution example with two agents, one for calling tool and one for executing the tool, to demonstrate tool use and reflection on tool use. This example uses broadcast communication.
- [`coding_direct_with_intercept.py`](coding_direct_with_intercept.py): an example showing human-in-the-loop for approving or denying tool execution.
- [`assistant.py`](assistant.py): a demonstration of how to use the OpenAI Assistant API to create
    a ChatGPT agent.
- [`chest_game.py`](chess_game.py): an example with two chess player agents that executes its own tools to demonstrate tool use and reflection on tool use.
- [`slow_human_in_loop.py`](slow_human_in_loop.py): an example showing human-in-the-loop which waits for human input before making the tool call.

## Running the examples

### Prerequisites

First, you need a shell with AutoGen core and required dependencies installed.

### Using Azure OpenAI API

For Azure OpenAI API, you need to set the following environment variables:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_TYPE=azure
export AZURE_OPENAI_API_ENDPOINT=your_azure_openai_endpoint
export AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION=your_azure_openai_api_version
```

By default, we use Azure Active Directory (AAD) for authentication.
You need to run `az login` first to authenticate with Azure.
You can also
use API key authentication by setting the following environment variables:

```bash
export AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=your_azure_openai_api_key
```

This requires azure-identity installation:

```bash
pip install azure-identity
```

### Using OpenAI API

For OpenAI API, you need to set the following environment variables.

```bash
export OPENAI_API_TYPE=openai
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
```

### Running

To run an example, just run the corresponding Python script. For example:

```bash
hatch shell
python core/one_agent_direct.py
```

Or simply:

```bash
hatch run python core/one_agent_direct.py
```

Commit message:

Move tool use with intervention to cookbook; remove duplicated examples (#658)

python/packages/autogen-core/samples/README.md, after:

# Examples

This directory contains examples of how to use AutoGen core.
See [user guide](../docs/src/core-user-guide/guides/) and
[cookbooks](../docs/src/core-user-guide/cookbook/) for more examples.

See [Running the examples](#running-the-examples) for instructions on how to run the examples.

- [`chest_game.py`](chess_game.py): an example with two chess player agents that executes its own tools to demonstrate tool use and reflection on tool use.
- [`slow_human_in_loop.py`](slow_human_in_loop.py): an example showing human-in-the-loop which waits for human input before making the tool call.

## Running the examples

### Prerequisites

First, you need a shell with AutoGen core and required dependencies installed.

### Using Azure OpenAI API

For Azure OpenAI API, you need to set the following environment variables:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_TYPE=azure
export AZURE_OPENAI_API_ENDPOINT=your_azure_openai_endpoint
export AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION=your_azure_openai_api_version
```

By default, we use Azure Active Directory (AAD) for authentication.
You need to run `az login` first to authenticate with Azure.
You can also
use API key authentication by setting the following environment variables:

```bash
export AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=your_azure_openai_api_key
```

This requires azure-identity installation:

```bash
pip install azure-identity
```

### Using OpenAI API

For OpenAI API, you need to set the following environment variables.

```bash
export OPENAI_API_TYPE=openai
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
```

### Running

To run an example, just run the corresponding Python script. For example:

```bash
hatch shell
python core/one_agent_direct.py
```

Or simply:

```bash
hatch run python core/one_agent_direct.py
```
